Powertrain configuration file (PT file) documentation and tutorial notebook (#93)
florentLutz/FAST-OAD-CS23-HE: docs/documentation/powertrain_builder/pt_file.rst

    component_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.<component type>
    options:
        # Other options of the component if applicable
    position: # Installation position

Multiple connection component
=============================
Some components like splitter, buses, fuel systems or gearboxes, can have multiple connections. Here is demonstrated how
those components should be defined in the PT file.

.. code:: yaml

    gearbox_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.gearbox
    position:  # Installation position

    fuel_system_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.fuel_system
    options:
      number_of_engines: # Number of engines to connect
      number_of_tanks: # Number of tanks to connect
    position:  # Installation position

    h2_fuel_system_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.h2_fuel_system
    options:
      number_of_power_sources: # Number of power sources to connect
      number_of_tanks: # Number of tanks to connect
    position:  # Installation position

    dc_bus_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.dc_bus
    options:
      number_of_inputs: # Number of inputs to connect
      number_of_outputs: # Number of outputs to connect
    position:  # Installation position

> Additionally, for DC splitter and planetary gear component, a working logic must be defined. The two modes are explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, for DC splitter and planetary gear components, a working logic must be defined. The two modes are explained
```

in the following diagram from :cite:`lutz:2025`.

.. image:: ../../img/splitter.svg
    :width: 800
    :align: center

.. code:: yaml

    dc_splitter_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.dc_splitter
    options:
      splitter_mode: # percent_split by default or power_share
    position: # Installation position

    planetary_gear_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.planetary_gear
    options:
      gear_mode: # percent_split by default or power_share
    position: # Installation position

*********************
Component connections
*********************

> This section defines the component connections of the powertrain architecture. For each connection, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section defines the connections between the components of the powertrain architecture. For each connection, the
```

The `id` of all existing component that can be added is available in :ref:`Component Constraints and ID <constraint-id>`.

Typical component
=================
Except for the components allowing multiple inputs or outputs connections, most components available in FAST-OAD-GA-he have the same definition format. It is presented here:

.. code:: yaml

    component_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.<component type>
    options:
        # Other options of the component if applicable
    position: # Installation position

Multiple connection component
=============================
Some components like splitter, buses fuel systems or gearboxes, can have multiple connections. Here is demonstrated how
those components should be defined in the PT file. For the `gearbox` and `speed_reducer` components, the number of input
and output connections does not need to be specified — this is automatically handled by the powertrain builder.

.. code:: yaml
    gearbox_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.gearbox
    position:  # Installation position

    speed_reducer_1:
    id: fastga_he.pt_component.speed_reducer

>     position:  # Installation position

Author: Removed at 09ca69e9.
